== Bugs

====31-Jan-2012

* a client that does not respond to a verify can hang jerbil! Is it possible
  put a timeout on?

10-01-2012

sclient will strip out log options when getting its own! Need to change this or add
an option in Jelly to not strip them.

01-Dec-2011

JerbilService::Client should be relaxed about config options!

Nov-2011

Nasty race condition where remote server deletes registering service from its local 
server, so everyone knows about a service except the local server! (Should be fixed in 0.2.12)

09-Sep-2011

There is no checking that services registered locally have the same hostname as the
server. Should not be an issue, but did cause problems during testing.

There is no way of directing a client or service to a particular jerbil server. Should
only be relevant to testing, could add a :jerbil_config key to the options hash when calling
get_server, which would always return nil if it had not been set anyway. (Addressed)

05-Sep-2011

When a server assumes control of a missing service because the server is not there, it fails
to delete its own copy! And when the missing server resumes, it cannot delete the un-deleted
service because it does not have the right key for that service anymore.

Colored success response for jerbl -v would be a big benefit

01-Aug-2011

1. service-missing is not working as expected. Needs to be tested to see what happens 
when a server is ungracefully removed. May need to change logic from removing services
to removing servers. - See above

2. Need to add client config file for jerbil to avoid having readable files everywhere.

23-June-2011

jerbil -V reports the number of times a service has been accessed through the local server.
Would be good to share all counts across all servers somehow?

17-Apr-2011

If you run jerbil -v on a remote server it appears to remove a service but the removal fails.
This is because it tries to remove the service locally. Also, if a server disappears then
the other servers still think the service is available. They need to remove the service manually if
that is the case!

Fixed in 0.1.0
------
17-May-2011

Would be good to hide the key check in a private function: check_key(key) rather than
expose the underlying mechanism

Also change key to pkey for private key parameters
