README.md, before:

# Jerbil

**(a.k.a Jumpin Ermin's Reliable Broker for Integrated Linux services)**

An Object Broker for ruby that provides reliable access to services across the LAN
and comes complete with a service class that makes writing services easy, hiding all
of the broker interactions.

**GitHub:** [https://github.com/osburn-sharp/jerbil](https://github.com/osburn-sharp/jerbil)

**RubyDoc:** [http://rubydoc.info/github/osburn-sharp/jerbil/frames](http://rubydoc.info/github/osburn-sharp/jerbil/frames)

**RubyGems:** [https://rubygems.org/gems/jerbil](https://rubygems.org/gems/jerbil)

See Also:

* {file:README_SERVICES.md Services Readme} for details about how to create a service that
uses the Jerbil Server
* {file:README_TESTING.md Testing Readme} for a note about testing Jerbil and Jerbil Services

## Installation

### Note

Jerbil will work on any Linux distro (and possibly other systems too) but it comes with
all the gear necessary to work on Gentoo out of the box - e.g. runscripts, /etc/conf.d files
and the like.

### Installing the Gem

Jerbil is available as a gem, so to get the gem:

    # gem install jerbil

Jerbil needs extra files to be installed on the system, which is done with the help
of [Jeni](https://github.com/osburn-sharp/jeni):

    # jerbil-install

This will install various files over and above those installed by the gem, including configuration files,
runscripts, and sbin wrappers for the jerbil server and for services that use the server.
Use the -p switch to pretend and see if everything works OK. Jerbil assumes there is a 
user 'jerbil' that will run the server process etc, so if there is no user 'jerbil' then 
this script will create one.

Jerbil can also be installed from source by downloading from GitHub (see above).

### System Architecture Overview

A Jerbil Server should be run on every machine that uses or provides services through
Jerbil. The servers self-discover each other and share service records so that the loss
of a single node in the network does not disrupt the rest of the network. The system is
not secure, but all servers share a secret key and check for this key before accepting
other servers into the network. Its more to avoid mistakes than proper security.

Services always register with their local server and clients always request
services from their local server. If services inherit the {JerbilService::Base} class all server interactions
are hidden from the user and if clients use the {JerbilService::Client} class then all server interactions
are also hidden. Service startup and shutdown can be achieved through a common script making it easy to
bring a new service into operation.

All services (and servers) can be run in one of three environments: prod, test and dev. This allows
development versions to run in parallel with production versions etc.

### Configuration

The configuration file for the server (jerbil.rb) will be placed in a directory /etc/jerbil. As well as checking
the defaults, you need to generate a secret. A random secret can be generated using the jerbil command:

    # jerbil server secret

although any long string will do. Full details of the configuration parameters for Jerbil are in {Jerbil::Config}.

### Editting /etc/services

Jerbil uses /etc/services to find its services (unsurprisingly) so this file needs to be updated. There must
be an entry for the server itself, as well as the services that use jerbil. Because Jerbil supports three
operating environments (dev, test and prod), these services must be assigned in triplets. The following is an example

    # starts from 49195
    #
    jerbil		  49200/tcp	# Jerbil Server
    jerbil-test	49201/tcp
    jerbil-dev	49202/tcp
    
    jexten		  49203/tcp	# Jexten Service - controls CM15pro
    jexten-test	49204/tcp
    jexten-dev 	49205/tcp
    
    tittle		  49206/tcp	# Tittle - Thermostatic Temperature Logger
    tittle-test	49207/tcp
    tittle-dev	49208/tcp
    
    tittledm	    49209/tcp	# Tittle's little device manager service
    tittledm-test	49210/tcp
    tittledm-dev	49211/tcp
    
    jemb		  49212/tcp	# Jumpin' Ermin's Music Box
    jemb-test	49213/tcp
    jemb-dev	49214/tcp

Strictly speaking the intermediate assignments do not need to be defined: Jerbil looks for the first one
and offsets it if either test or dev is selected. They are included here as a reminder that the ports may be used.

### Starting and Stopping the Server

Once you have generated a secret and set up some services in /etc/services, it is now possible to
start the Jerbil Server. This can be done using the jerbild script:

    # /usr/sbin/jerbild

which will start the server, get the default config file (/etc/jermine/jerbil.rb), daemonise, and say very little.
If you add the -h or --help switch you can see how to overide this default behaviour.
You can then test that the server is running with:

    # jerbil server

If this does not report the server as up, go to the troubleshooting section.

If you can support init scripts, then jerbil is ready to go. Edit /etc/conf.d/jerbild if you need to change settings such as
where the config file is and then run:

    # /etc/init.d/jerbild start
    # rc-update add jerbild default

the latter command works on Gentoo at least.

You can also check if the server is working using:

    # /usr/sbin/jerbil-status -V
    or
    # /etc/init.d/jerbild status

To stop the server:

    # /usr/sbin/jerbil-stop
    or
    # /etc/init.d/jerbild stop

Further details of all these commands can be obtained with the -h or --help option


## General Description

The function of Jerbil is to make it easy to write linux services in ruby that can be deployed anywhere on
a network, once or multiple times, and enabling clients to access these services regardless of where they are. Its
a wrapper around DRb and a replacement for Rinda.

A Jerbil Server is required to run on each machine where services are needed or from which they are accessed.
Each server will discover other servers on the network and register with them, provided they all share the same
secret and are running in the same environment. During registration, new servers will receive details from the other
servers of all the services that are local to them. This provides a robust and relatively self-healing network where
a server can come and go without needing to restart any of the others. By comparison, the Rinda server presents a
single point of failure. If it goes down nobody can find anything and all services have to be restarted when the
server is restored.

Part of the self-healing in Jerbil is dealing with services that become unavailable. When this happens, the server
checks if the services local server is running. If it is, this local server is asked to deal with the missing service
and update the database accordingly. If it is not, then the original server takes responsibility for the missing
service and purges it from all the other servers.

A Service registers with a server to make its services available. A client then searches the server for the service(s)
it is interested in and receives back all of the matching services known. The client can then connect to each service
and carry out whatever action is required. The search can be controlled, e.g. to return only local services or the first
service or services in a given environment.

Writing a Service is eased by various support classes. The main class is {JerbilService::Base}, which is a generic service
that deals with all of the Jerbil server interactions. By inheriting this class, a service can be created that uses
Jerbil with only a couple of lines of code.

Controlling a service is also made easy by the {JerbilService::Supervisor} class. This hides all of the actions needed
to start a service. However, service control is made even easier by /usr/bin/jserviced, which starts any service
given that services name, provided the files conform to certain protocols. The /usr/sbin/jservice-status and
/usr/sbin/jservice-stop commands work in a similar manner.

Writing a client is similarly made easy by the {JerbilService::Client} class, which finds one or more services ready
to be connected to and acted upon.

### Further Reading

* {file:README_SERVICES.md Jerbil Services} A short guide.

## Code Walkthrough

The Jerbil code is available online at [GitHub](https://github.com/osburn-sharp/jerbil)
Jerbil is divided into two groups: the server and the services that use the server.

### Servers

The server consists of one main class: {Jerbil::Broker} and two data-type classes: 
{Jerbil::Servers} and {Jerbil::ServiceRecord}. The Broker contains the main server code, 
finding and registering with other servers, accepting and recording services and
responding to queries about registered services. When a service registers with 
the broker, the broker will also inform all of the other servers of that service. 
The {Jerbil::Servers} class is used by the broker to record information
about a server and it provides convenience methods to connect to a server and a class 
method to find the local server. The {Jerbil::ServiceRecord} class fulfils a similar 
role for services.

When a server starts up it uses the {Jerbil::Servers.find_servers} class method to
search the network for any other servers. This method uses the NetAddr gem to create a
list of network addresses from the parameters defined by {Jerbil::Config}, allowing
users to limit jerbil addresses, both to control which machines get polled and to speed
up the search. The jerbil port is polled using the standard library TCPSocket interface
with a timeout (standard library again). When the server finds another server it first 
does a minor security check (see below) and then obtains all of the services registered with
that server and adds it to its service database.

Jerbil is intended to be as reliable as possible - to survive any of the servers and 
their services leaving the network unexpectedly. If a local client attempts to connect 
to a remote service and fails, then the server will be asked to check with {Jerbil::Broker#service_missing?}. 
This will attempt to contact the service's local server and ask it to check. If
the local server is running, it will check that the service is OK and if not, remove 
the service and update all the other servers. If this server is not available (e.g. 
server has gone down) then the original server will take responsibility for purging the 
service from its own records and all the remaining servers.

Jerbil uses Jellog for logging and on :debug level produces copious records to help understand 
what it is doing. See below for more detail on Jerbil logging.

Jerbil and Jerbil Services use the standard library daemons to run in the background 
but they keep track of their own pids instead of relying on daemon. To stop the server, 
an attempt is made to call the stop method, which cleans up with all the other servers, 
but failing that the pid is used to kill the server.

### Services

Services are created by inheriting the {JerbilService::Base} class:

    module RubyTest
    
    extend JerbilService::Support
    
    class Service < JerbilService::Base
    
      def initialize(pkey, options)
        super(:rubytest, pkey, options)
      end
      
      def action
        @logger.debug("Someone called the action method!")
        return "Hello"
      end
      
      end
    
    end

The Base class takes care of Jerbil registration and creates a Jellog logger instance variable. It also provides a stop
method and a verify method. Full details on creating Jerbil Services are provided in the {file:README_SERVICES.md Readme file}.

### Security

Security is currently limited:

* Servers share a secret key, recorded in their config file which should be readable by limited people! They use this
key to ensure that registering servers are bona fide.

* Each server is given its own session-unique private key that it shares with the others and checks for all of the remote server methods.
The same key is also required to stop the server.

* A similar key is provided to each service and is required to stop the service. It is up to service writers to decide
whether to require clients to use this key, but a check_key method is provided.

The purpose of these checks is largely to protect integrity rather than make Jerbil secure. Jerbil is currently
targetted at a benign network environment.

During installation, jerbil-install should have created the 'jermine' user. By default the jerbil servers will run as this
user and so will any services started using the /etc/init.d runscripts.

### Logging

Jerbil uses [Jellog](http://rubydoc.info/github/osburn-sharp/jellog/frames) to log
messages. By default, these messages will be logged to /var/log/jerbil/jerbil-<env>.log
where <env> is prod, test or dev depending on the environment jerbil is running in.
Note that Jellog also logs certain messages to syslog unless you select the option
to disable this (see sbin/jerbild or /etc/conf.d/jerbild). The verbosity of the log 
can be increased by setting the log_level parameter in {Jerbil::Config} to either
:verbose or :debug.

This log is used by the main Jerbil Server, but it is not the only log generated. 
During start-up, the script will also log to a separate file (by default this is
/var/log/jerbil/jerbil_sd.log). This can be used to check if something went wrong
with the script after it daemonised. To ensure that this logging occurs, set the 
command line option for the sbin/jerbild script or the parameter in /etc/conf.d/jerbild.
Alternatively, run the script in foreground mode to see all the possible messages. This
is also an option on the script and in the config file.

In the event that something goes wrong during the daemonisation itself, the jerbil
script sets the daemon process to log any messages to a file in the same log directory:
/var/log/jerbil/jerbil_daemon.output. This can, however, contain a lot of exception
information that has very little to do with the problem. 

Finally, if Jerbil fails to start and these logs show no help, it is worth checking
the file /tmp/jerbil_panic.log which is also created by the startup script in the
event that an exception is raised during the daemonization process.


## Dependencies

A ruby compiler - works with 1.8.7.

Check the {file:Gemfile} for other dependencies.

## Documentation

Documentation is best viewed using Yard and is available online 
at [RubyDoc](http://rubydoc.info/github/osburn-sharp/jerbil/frames)

## Testing/Modifying

Details of testing can be found in the {file:README_TESTING.md Testing README}.

## Bugs

Details of any unresolved bugs and change requests are in {file:Bugs.rdoc Bugs}

## Changelog

See {file:History.txt} for a summary change history

## Copyright and Licence

Copyright (c) 2012 Robert Sharp

This software is licensed under the terms defined in {file:LICENCE.rdoc}

The author may be contacted by via [GitHub](http://github.com/osburn-sharp)

## Warranty

This software is provided "as is" and without any express or implied
warranties, including, without limitation, the implied warranties of
merchantibility and fitness for a particular purpose.

Commit message:

Add chmod to creation of /var/run/jerbil in jerbil initscript.

README.md, after:

# Jerbil

**(a.k.a Jumpin Ermin's Reliable Broker for Integrated Linux services)**

An Object Broker for ruby that provides reliable access to services across the LAN
and comes complete with a service class that makes writing services easy, hiding all
of the broker interactions.

**GitHub:** [https://github.com/osburn-sharp/jerbil](https://github.com/osburn-sharp/jerbil)

**RubyDoc:** [http://rubydoc.info/github/osburn-sharp/jerbil/frames](http://rubydoc.info/github/osburn-sharp/jerbil/frames)

**RubyGems:** [https://rubygems.org/gems/jerbil](https://rubygems.org/gems/jerbil)

See Also:

* {file:README_SERVICES.md Services Readme} for details about how to create a service that
uses the Jerbil Server
* {file:README_TESTING.md Testing Readme} for a note about testing Jerbil and Jerbil Services

## Installation

### Note

Jerbil will work on any Linux distro (and possibly other systems too) but it comes with
all the gear necessary to work on Gentoo out of the box - e.g. runscripts, /etc/conf.d files
and the like.

### Installing the Gem

Jerbil is available as a gem, so to get the gem:

    # gem install jerbil

Jerbil needs extra files to be installed on the system, which is done with the help
of [Jeni](https://github.com/osburn-sharp/jeni):

    # jerbil-install

This will install various files over and above those installed by the gem, including configuration files,
runscripts, and sbin wrappers for the jerbil server and for services that use the server.
By default, Jerbil will install start-up scripts etc into /usr/local/sbin, but this can be
changed to /usr/sbin by adding the -u option.
Use the -p switch to pretend and see if everything works OK. Jerbil assumes there is a 
user 'jerbil' that will run the server process etc, so if there is no user 'jerbil' then 
this script will create one.

Jerbil can also be installed from source by downloading from GitHub (see above).

### System Architecture Overview

A Jerbil Server should be run on every machine that uses or provides services through
Jerbil. The servers self-discover each other and share service records so that the loss
of a single node in the network does not disrupt the rest of the network. The system is
not secure, but all servers share a secret key and check for this key before accepting
other servers into the network. Its more to avoid mistakes than proper security.

Services always register with their local server and clients always request
services from their local server. If services inherit the {JerbilService::Base} class all server interactions
are hidden from the user and if clients use the {JerbilService::Client} class then all server interactions
are also hidden. Service startup and shutdown can be achieved through a common script making it easy to
bring a new service into operation.

All services (and servers) can be run in one of three environments: prod, test and dev. This allows
development versions to run in parallel with production versions etc.

### Configuration

The configuration file for the server (jerbil.rb) will be placed in a directory /etc/jerbil. As well as checking
the defaults, you need to generate a secret. A random secret can be generated using the jerbil command:

    # jerbil server secret

although any long string will do. Full details of the configuration parameters for Jerbil are in {Jerbil::Config}.

### Editting /etc/services

Jerbil uses /etc/services to find its services (unsurprisingly) so this file needs to be updated. There must
be an entry for the server itself, as well as the services that use jerbil. Because Jerbil supports three
operating environments (dev, test and prod), these services must be assigned in triplets. The following is an example

    # starts from 49195
    #
    jerbil		  49200/tcp	# Jerbil Server
    jerbil-test	49201/tcp
    jerbil-dev	49202/tcp
    
    jexten		  49203/tcp	# Jexten Service - controls CM15pro
    jexten-test	49204/tcp
    jexten-dev 	49205/tcp
    
    tittle		  49206/tcp	# Tittle - Thermostatic Temperature Logger
    tittle-test	49207/tcp
    tittle-dev	49208/tcp
    
    tittledm	    49209/tcp	# Tittle's little device manager service
    tittledm-test	49210/tcp
    tittledm-dev	49211/tcp
    
    jemb		  49212/tcp	# Jumpin' Ermin's Music Box
    jemb-test	49213/tcp
    jemb-dev	49214/tcp

Strictly speaking the intermediate assignments do not need to be defined: Jerbil looks for the first one
and offsets it if either test or dev is selected. They are included here as a reminder that the ports may be used.

### Starting and Stopping the Server

Once you have generated a secret and set up some services in /etc/services, it is now possible to
start the Jerbil Server. This can be done using the jerbild script:

    # /usr/sbin/jerbild

which will start the server, get the default config file (/etc/jermine/jerbil.rb), daemonise, and say very little.
If you add the -h or --help switch you can see how to overide this default behaviour.
You can then test that the server is running with:

    # jerbil server

If this does not report the server as up, go to the troubleshooting section.

If you can support init scripts, then jerbil is ready to go. Edit /etc/conf.d/jerbild if you need to change settings such as
where the config file is and then run:

    # /etc/init.d/jerbild start
    # rc-update add jerbild default

the latter command works on Gentoo at least.

You can also check if the server is working using:

    # /usr/sbin/jerbil-status -V
    or
    # /etc/init.d/jerbild status

To stop the server:

    # /usr/sbin/jerbil-stop
    or
    # /etc/init.d/jerbild stop

Further details of all these commands can be obtained with the -h or --help option


## General Description

The function of Jerbil is to make it easy to write linux services in ruby that can be deployed anywhere on
a network, once or multiple times, and enabling clients to access these services regardless of where they are. Its
a wrapper around DRb and a replacement for Rinda.

A Jerbil Server is required to run on each machine where services are needed or from which they are accessed.
Each server will discover other servers on the network and register with them, provided they all share the same
secret and are running in the same environment. During registration, new servers will receive details from the other
servers of all the services that are local to them. This provides a robust and relatively self-healing network where
a server can come and go without needing to restart any of the others. By comparison, the Rinda server presents a
single point of failure. If it goes down nobody can find anything and all services have to be restarted when the
server is restored.

Part of the self-healing in Jerbil is dealing with services that become unavailable. When this happens, the server
checks if the services local server is running. If it is, this local server is asked to deal with the missing service
and update the database accordingly. If it is not, then the original server takes responsibility for the missing
service and purges it from all the other servers.

A Service registers with a server to make its services available. A client then searches the server for the service(s)
it is interested in and receives back all of the matching services known. The client can then connect to each service
and carry out whatever action is required. The search can be controlled, e.g. to return only local services or the first
service or services in a given environment.

Writing a Service is eased by various support classes. The main class is {JerbilService::Base}, which is a generic service
that deals with all of the Jerbil server interactions. By inheriting this class, a service can be created that uses
Jerbil with only a couple of lines of code.

Controlling a service is also made easy by the {JerbilService::Supervisor} class. This hides all of the actions needed
to start a service. However, service control is made even easier by /usr/bin/jserviced, which starts any service
given that services name, provided the files conform to certain protocols. The /usr/sbin/jservice-status and
/usr/sbin/jservice-stop commands work in a similar manner.

Writing a client is similarly made easy by the {JerbilService::Client} class, which finds one or more services ready
to be connected to and acted upon.

### Further Reading

* {file:README_SERVICES.md Jerbil Services} A short guide.

## Code Walkthrough

The Jerbil code is available online at [GitHub](https://github.com/osburn-sharp/jerbil)
Jerbil is divided into two groups: the server and the services that use the server.

### Servers

The server consists of one main class: {Jerbil::Broker} and two data-type classes: 
{Jerbil::Servers} and {Jerbil::ServiceRecord}. The Broker contains the main server code, 
finding and registering with other servers, accepting and recording services and
responding to queries about registered services. When a service registers with 
the broker, the broker will also inform all of the other servers of that service. 
The {Jerbil::Servers} class is used by the broker to record information
about a server and it provides convenience methods to connect to a server and a class 
method to find the local server. The {Jerbil::ServiceRecord} class fulfils a similar 
role for services.

When a server starts up it uses the {Jerbil::Servers.find_servers} class method to
search the network for any other servers. This method uses the NetAddr gem to create a
list of network addresses from the parameters defined by {Jerbil::Config}, allowing
users to limit jerbil addresses, both to control which machines get polled and to speed
up the search. The jerbil port is polled using the standard library TCPSocket interface
with a timeout (standard library again). When the server finds another server it first 
does a minor security check (see below) and then obtains all of the services registered with
that server and adds it to its service database.

Jerbil is intended to be as reliable as possible - to survive any of the servers and 
their services leaving the network unexpectedly. If a local client attempts to connect 
to a remote service and fails, then the server will be asked to check with {Jerbil::Broker#service_missing?}. 
This will attempt to contact the service's local server and ask it to check. If
the local server is running, it will check that the service is OK and if not, remove 
the service and update all the other servers. If this server is not available (e.g. 
server has gone down) then the original server will take responsibility for purging the 
service from its own records and all the remaining servers.

Jerbil uses Jellog for logging and on :debug level produces copious records to help understand 
what it is doing. See below for more detail on Jerbil logging.

Jerbil and Jerbil Services use the standard library daemons to run in the background 
but they keep track of their own pids instead of relying on daemon. To stop the server, 
an attempt is made to call the stop method, which cleans up with all the other servers, 
but failing that the pid is used to kill the server.

### Services

Services are created by inheriting the {JerbilService::Base} class:

    module RubyTest
    
    extend JerbilService::Support
    
    class Service < JerbilService::Base
    
      def initialize(pkey, options)
        super(:rubytest, pkey, options)
      end
      
      def action
        @logger.debug("Someone called the action method!")
        return "Hello"
      end
      
      end
    
    end

The Base class takes care of Jerbil registration and creates a Jellog logger instance variable. It also provides a stop
method and a verify method. Full details on creating Jerbil Services are provided in the {file:README_SERVICES.md Readme file}.

### Security

Security is currently limited:

* Servers share a secret key, recorded in their config file which should be readable by limited people! They use this
key to ensure that registering servers are bona fide.

* Each server is given its own session-unique private key that it shares with the others and checks for all of the remote server methods.
The same key is also required to stop the server.

* A similar key is provided to each service and is required to stop the service. It is up to service writers to decide
whether to require clients to use this key, but a check_key method is provided.

The purpose of these checks is largely to protect integrity rather than make Jerbil secure. Jerbil is currently
targetted at a benign network environment.

During installation, jerbil-install should have created the 'jermine' user. By default the jerbil servers will run as this
user and so will any services started using the /etc/init.d runscripts.

### Logging

Jerbil uses [Jellog](http://rubydoc.info/github/osburn-sharp/jellog/frames) to log
messages. By default, these messages will be logged to /var/log/jerbil/jerbil-<env>.log
where <env> is prod, test or dev depending on the environment jerbil is running in.
Note that Jellog also logs certain messages to syslog unless you select the option
to disable this (see sbin/jerbild or /etc/conf.d/jerbild). The verbosity of the log 
can be increased by setting the log_level parameter in {Jerbil::Config} to either
:verbose or :debug.

This log is used by the main Jerbil Server, but it is not the only log generated. 
During start-up, the script will also log to a separate file (by default this is
/var/log/jerbil/jerbil_sd.log). This can be used to check if something went wrong
with the script after it daemonised. To ensure that this logging occurs, set the 
command line option for the sbin/jerbild script or the parameter in /etc/conf.d/jerbild.
Alternatively, run the script in foreground mode to see all the possible messages. This
is also an option on the script and in the config file.

In the event that something goes wrong during the daemonisation itself, the jerbil
script sets the daemon process to log any messages to a file in the same log directory:
/var/log/jerbil/jerbil_daemon.output. This can, however, contain a lot of exception
information that has very little to do with the problem. 

Finally, if Jerbil fails to start and these logs show no help, it is worth checking
the file /tmp/jerbil_panic.log which is also created by the startup script in the
event that an exception is raised during the daemonization process.


## Dependencies

A ruby compiler - works with 1.8.7.

Check the {file:Gemfile} for other dependencies.

## Documentation

Documentation is best viewed using Yard and is available online 
at [RubyDoc](http://rubydoc.info/github/osburn-sharp/jerbil/frames)

## Testing/Modifying

Details of testing can be found in the {file:README_TESTING.md Testing README}.

## Bugs

Details of any unresolved bugs and change requests are in {file:Bugs.rdoc Bugs}

## Changelog

See {file:History.txt} for a summary change history

## Copyright and Licence

Copyright (c) 2012 Robert Sharp

This software is licensed under the terms defined in {file:LICENCE.rdoc}

The author may be contacted by via [GitHub](http://github.com/osburn-sharp)

## Warranty

This software is provided "as is" and without any express or implied
warranties, including, without limitation, the implied warranties of
merchantibility and fitness for a particular purpose.
